In this video, we will be talking about our first file, which is CAD account or Java file.
This file will be counting the words and characters which will user enter in the text area.
So let's have a look what how this is working.
So this class is defined inside the package apps and we have imported the necessary packages like Java
District, which is Abstract Window Toolkit.
This package will be used to provide a better graphical user interface.
And then we have used the Java export swing, while Java export swing package is a modified version
of the Abstract Window Toolkit.
So we will also use this to provide graphical user interface and.
Then we have imported Java dot ADA Dot event which will help us to perform event or handle events over
the buttons which we will be using in this class.
After that, we have defined here a public class count which is extending frame and implementing action,
where frame is a class provided by the Swing Framework and Excel is not the interface which will help
us to implement its methods for the handling events on our buttons.
After that, there are two labels, L1 and L2.
That is a jailable type of instance.
Then there is a text area instance to and a button type of instance b and there are two more buttons,
pad and text.
So these are the instance which is inside this account class.
After that we have defined the non parameterized constructor of this class inside which we have first
inside super variable.
We have stated that care word count tool.
So this will be the heading which is cat character word counting tool.
After that we have initialized the label LWB one is equals to new J label and we have passed the argument
test characters.
So this label will be used to show the number of characters.
And after that for this label we have set its location and size.
So its location will be 50, comma, 50, and it's a size will be 100 cross 20.
So the first two argument will be X and Y.
So these will be the location.
And the second argument is width and height.
So it will be hundred and its height will be 20.
Similarly, we have defined another label, LWB two is equals two new label and passed the argument
as words.
So this will store and print the number of words.
And after that we have set the location and size for that label by using the set bounce method.
And we have passed that to argument.
First to argument will be X and Y, so it is 50, comma, 80, and after that its size will be 100 cross
20, same as the label one size, which is for the characters.
After that we have defined the text area.
Variability is equal to new text area with no arguments and then we have defined a scroll panel for
that text area.
So that is a scroll pane variable ESP, new scroll pen and past the text area and as our argument to
the scroll pane.
So what it is, does it basically apply the scroll panel over the text area as the text area instance
has been passed inside the argument of the scroll panel.
After that, we have set the bound for the scroll panel and its location will be 50 comma one 110 and
it's the size will be 300.
Cross 200.
After that we have defined a button b is equals to new j button and pass the argument as count so this
button will be labeled labelled as count.
So when we will want to count the number of characters and button, we will press this button.
After that, we have set the bound for this button using a set bounce method.
The first two arguments will be and by location from which the button will be placed.
So it will be placed at 50 comma 320 and its a size will be eight cross 30.
So this will be the bound or location for that button and eight across 30 will be the size of the button.
After that we have added action listener to this button because some event must be performed as it is
a button.
So when it will be pressed, so something must be performed for that.
We have added listener and after that we will define its action, perform the event as well.
Then there is another button named as pad, so new button pad colour.
So this will be labelled as pad colour.
By clicking this button we can change.
The colour of our text stadia background and also the text.
So we will be showing this in output, how it is working.
Then we have set the set bounds of for that pad button.
Its location will be 140, comma 320.
So it will be located at 140 comer 320 and it's the size will be one 110 cross 30.
So this will be its size.
And as here it is written also X, Y and width, height.
So these are the respective values for the said bounds.
After that we have added action is now on the pad button also because Pad Button will also handle events
whenever it is clicked.
So it should perform something whenever any event must be occurring in this button.
After that, we have defined another label as text color.
So bad color will be changing for the changing of color of the background of the text area.
While the text color will help us to change the color of the text, which we will be writing on that
text area.
So this button is labeled as text color.
After that, we have set the bound for that button.
Which will help us to locate the button and set its size so its location will be to 6320 and its size
will be 1102110 across 30.
This will be its size after that.
We have added action to that button because the button must be performing some event whenever it is
pressed.
After that, what we are doing is we are adding the LP one to our frame.
Similarly, we are adding LP two, then we are writing the scroll panel and all the three buttons be
pad and text.
So we have added everything to our frame.
After that, we are setting the size of the frame that will be 400, comma, four and 400, cross 400,
then its layout as null.
So we will be not using any layout manager and set the visibility of the window as true.
After that, we have set the default close operation or dispose on clause.
So whenever we will close.
So this will.
Close the complete program and operation.
After that, we have defined the action performed method which is taking argument action event e.
So this method will be handling events over those buttons, which we have defined to be pad and text.
So here it is.
There is a statement inside which we have passed e dot get sources is close to be.
So if the source of the button is b that b button is for basically count.
As you can see, the B button is for count.
So if the source of the event is from B, what we are doing is we are setting a string text is equals
to to get text.
So we are fetching the text from the text area and storing it into a string named as text.
After that.
What we are doing.
We are.
We are setting the that setting some text in our label one and what the argument is characters and we
are adding a string text dot length.
So as we have restored the text area value in the text, so we'll be simply calculating the length of
that text.
So that text length will be provide us the.
Number of characters in our return a string or data which we have written inside the text area.
After that, what we are doing is we are in initializing a string type of header words inside which
we are splitting our text with the help of a.
Backslash se.
So this will be for the space.
So we were splitting our text on the basis of space because words will be calculated at every space.
So whenever it is found the space, it will split it and store it into an area.
Now, inside the lab to what we are doing, setting the text words is equals to words total length.
So now we will be calculating the length of that area.
So that will be the number of words.
So we have stored that thing in our label.
Two now inside the LCF if the resource of the button is from pad.
If the pad button is pressed or an event happened, then what we are doing is we are opening a colour
C and the J colour chooser and dots show dialog box this colour choose colour and colour dot black.
So this is the argument or the colour user will help us to open a colour chooser which will help us
to choose different colours and we have stored that C in colour object class.
After that what we are doing is we are setting the background colour to set background and past that
particular chosen colour.
So that's what this will do.
This will change the background colour of our text area as soon as any colour will be chosen from this
dialog box.
Now if the source of the baton is from text.
So what we are doing, if the source of the baton is from text, that color C is equals to GE color
chooser stat dot show dialog box and this choose colors color not black.
So this will also help us to choose color from a dialog box with the help of the color chooser class.
And what we are doing is we are setting the foreground color of the text area as I see the chosen color.
So this will change the color of the text or the content which we will be writing in the text area to
the color which will be chosen by the user.
So that's how the color count is working inside which we have also studied about that changing the colors
of the background of the text area as well as its foreground.
So this will also help us to change the background color and the text of the fonts which we will be
writing now inside the main function.
What we did is just simply call the new account class so that whenever it is.
It will, it should be run.
So a main method will be called and it will create the instance for that.
Current class.
So that's how the current class is working, which will be counting the words and characters written
in.